Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2)
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) provides secure, resizable compute capacity
in the cloud as Amazon EC2 instances.
Imagine you are responsible for the architecture of your company's resources and need to
support new websites. With traditional on-premises resources, you have to do the
following:
 Spend money upfront to purchase hardware.
 Wait for the servers to be delivered to you.
 Install the servers in your physical data centre.
 Make all the necessary configurations.
The time and money it takes to get up and running with on-premises resources is fairly high.
When you own your own fleet of physical servers, you first have to do a bunch of research
to see what type of servers you want to buy and how many you'll need. Then you purchase
that hardware up front. You'll wait for multiple weeks or months for a vendor to deliver
those servers to you. You then take them to a data centre that you own or rent to install
them, rack and stack them, and wire them all up. Then you make sure that they are secure
and powered up and then they're ready to be used. Only then can you begin to host your
applications on top of these servers. The worst part is, once you buy these servers you are
stuck with them whether you use them or not.
By comparison, with an Amazon EC2 instance you can use a virtual server to run applications
in the AWS Cloud.
 You can provision and launch an Amazon EC2 instance within minutes.
 You can stop using it when you have finished running a workload.
 You pay only for the compute time you use when an instance is running, not when it
is stopped or terminated.
 You can save costs by paying only for server capacity that you need or want.
How Amazon EC2 works
(1) Launch
First, you launch an instance. Begin by selecting a template with basic configurations for
your instance. These configurations include the operating system, application server, or
applications. You also select the instance type, which is the specific hardware configuration
of your instance.
As you are preparing to launch an instance, you specify security settings to control the
network traffic that can flow into and out of your instance. Later in this course, we will
explore Amazon EC2 security features in greater detail.
(2) Connect
Next, connect to the instance. You can connect to the instance in several ways. Your
programs and applications have multiple different methods to connect directly to the
instance and exchange data. Users can also connect to the instance by logging in and
accessing the computer desktop.
(3) Use
After you have connected to the instance, you can begin using it. You can run commands to
install software, add storage, copy and organize files, and more.
Multi-tenancy
EC2 runs on top of physical host machines managed by AWS using virtualization
technology. When you spin up an EC2 instance, you aren't necessarily taking an entire host
to yourself. Instead, you are sharing the host with multiple other instances, otherwise
known as virtual machines. And a hypervisor running on the host machine is responsible for
sharing the underlying physical resources between the virtual machines.
This idea of sharing underlying hardware is called multi-tenancy. The hypervisor is
responsible for coordinating this multi-tenancy and it is managed by AWS. The hypervisor is
responsible for isolating the virtual machines from each other as they share resources from
the host. This means EC2 instances are secure. Even though they may be sharing resources,
one EC2 instance is not aware of any other EC2 instances also on that host. They are secure
and separate from each other.
Amazon EC2 instance types
Amazon EC2 instance types are optimized for different tasks. When selecting an instance
type, consider the specific needs of your workloads and applications. This might include
requirements for compute, memory, or storage capabilities.
General purpose instances provide a balance of compute, memory, and networking
resources. You can use them for a variety of workloads, such as:
 application servers
 gaming servers
 backend servers for enterprise applications
 small and medium databases
Suppose that you have an application in which the resource needs for compute, memory,
and networking are roughly equivalent. You might consider running it on a general purpose
instance because the application does not require optimization in any single resource area.
Compute optimized instances are ideal for compute-bound applications that benefit from
high-performance processors. Like general purpose instances, you can use compute
optimized instances for workloads such as web, application, and gaming servers.
However, the difference is compute optimized applications are ideal for high-performance
web servers, compute-intensive applications servers, and dedicated gaming servers. You
can also use compute optimized instances for batch processing workloads that require
processing many transactions in a single group.
Memory optimized instances are designed to deliver fast performance for workloads that
process large datasets in memory. In computing, memory is a temporary storage area. It
holds all the data and instructions that a central processing unit (CPU) needs to be able to
complete actions. Before a computer program or application is able to run, it is loaded from
storage into memory. This preloading process gives the CPU direct access to the computer
program.
Suppose that you have a workload that requires large amounts of data to be preloaded
before running an application. This scenario might be a high-performance database or a
workload that involves performing real-time processing of a large amount of unstructured
data. In these types of use cases, consider using a memory optimized instance. Memory
optimized instances enable you to run workloads with high memory needs and receive great
performance.
Accelerated computing instances use hardware accelerators, or coprocessors, to perform
some functions more efficiently than is possible in software running on CPUs. Examples of
these functions include floating-point number calculations, graphics processing, and data
pattern matching.
In computing, a hardware accelerator is a component that can expedite data processing.
Accelerated computing instances are ideal for workloads such as graphics applications,
game streaming, and application streaming.
Storage optimized instances are designed for workloads that require high, sequential read
and write access to large datasets on local storage. Examples of workloads suitable for
storage optimized instances include distributed file systems, data warehousing
applications, and high-frequency online transaction processing (OLTP) systems.
In computing, the term input/output operations per second (IOPS) is a metric that measures
the performance of a storage device. It indicates how many different input or output
operations a device can perform in one second. Storage optimized instances are designed to
deliver tens of thousands of low-latency, random IOPS to applications.
You can think of input operations as data put into a system, such as records entered into a
database. An output operation is data generated by a server. An example of output might
be the analytics performed on the records in a database. If you have an application that has
a high IOPS requirement, a storage optimized instance can provide better performance over
other instance types not optimized for this kind of use case.
Amazon EC2 pricing
With Amazon EC2, you pay only for the compute time that you use. Amazon EC2 offers a
variety of pricing options for different use cases. For example, if your use case can withstand
interruptions, you can save with Spot Instances. You can also save by committing early and
locking in a minimum level of use with Reserved Instances.
On-Demand Instances are ideal for short-term, irregular workloads that cannot be
interrupted. No upfront costs or minimum contracts apply. The instances run continuously
until you stop them, and you pay for only the compute time you use.
Sample use cases for On-Demand Instances include developing and testing applications and
running applications that have unpredictable usage patterns. On-Demand Instances are not
recommended for workloads that last a year or longer because these workloads can
experience greater cost savings using Reserved Instances.
This type of on-demand pricing is usually for when you get started and want to spin up
servers to test out workloads and play around. You don't need any prior contracts or
communication with AWS to use On-Demand pricing. You can also use them to get a
baseline for your average usage, which leads us to our next pricing option, Savings Plan.
AWS offers Savings Plans for several compute services, including Amazon EC2. Amazon EC2
Savings Plans enable you to reduce your compute costs by committing to a consistent
amount of compute usage (measured in dollars per hour) for a 1-year or 3-year term. This
term commitment results in savings of up to 72% over On-Demand costs.
Any usage up to the commitment is charged at the discounted Savings Plan rate (for
example, $10 an hour). Any usage beyond the commitment is charged at regular OnDemand rates.
Later in this course, you will review AWS Cost Explorer, a tool that enables you to visualize,
understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time.
Reserved Instances are a billing discount applied to the use of On-Demand Instances in
your account, and these are suited for steady-state workloads or ones with predictable
usage. You can purchase Standard Reserved and Convertible Reserved Instances for a 1-year
or 3-year term, and Scheduled Reserved Instances for a 1-year term. You realize greater cost
savings with the 3-year option.
At the end of a Reserved Instance term, you can continue using the Amazon EC2 instance
without interruption. However, you are charged On-Demand rates until you do one of the
following:
 Terminate the instance.
 Purchase a new Reserved Instance that matches the instance attributes (instance
type, Region, tenancy, and platform).
Spot Instances are ideal for workloads with flexible start and end times, or that can
withstand interruptions. They allow you to request spare Amazon EC2 computing capacity
for up to 90% off of the On-Demand price. The catch here is that AWS can reclaim the
instance at any time they need it, giving you a two-minute warning to finish up work and
save state. You can always resume later if needed. So when choosing Spot Instances, make
sure your workloads can tolerate being interrupted. A good example of those are batch
workloads.
Suppose that you have a background processing job that can start and stop as needed (such
as the data processing job for a customer survey). You want to start and stop the processing
job without affecting the overall operations of your business. If you make a Spot request
and Amazon EC2 capacity is available, your Spot Instance launches. However, if you make a
Spot request and Amazon EC2 capacity is unavailable, the request is not successful until
capacity becomes available. The unavailable capacity might delay the launch of your
background processing job.
After you have launched a Spot Instance, if capacity is no longer available or demand for
Spot Instances increases, your instance may be interrupted. This might not pose any issues
for your background processing job. However, in the earlier example of developing and
testing applications, you would most likely want to avoid unexpected interruptions.
Therefore, choose a different EC2 instance type that is ideal for those tasks.
Dedicated Hosts are physical servers with Amazon EC2 instance capacity that is fully
dedicated to your use. These are usually for meeting certain compliance requirements and
nobody else will share tenancy of that host.
You can use your existing per-socket, per-core, or per-VM software licenses to help maintain
license compliance. You can purchase On-Demand Dedicated Hosts and Dedicated Hosts
Reservations. Of all the Amazon EC2 options that were covered, Dedicated Hosts are the
most expensive.
